---
layout: post
title: Fourier transform for real functions
date: 2022-03-30
description: First the wrong way, then the right way
tags: reference
categories: analysis math
comments: true
---

# Complex conjugate of Fourier coefficient

Given the (inverse) Fourier transform

$$
F(x) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int dk \space \tilde{F}(k) e^{ikx},
$$
I will show that the complex conjugate of Fourier coefficient can be expressed as $\tilde{F}^*(k) = \tilde{F}(-k).$ 

## Motivation

Why do we want this result? This is because you can convert any complex function $f^*(x)$ you obtained from Fourier transform into a real function with a negative parameter, $f(-x)$. So you don't need to panic when you get complex quantities in your results.

## Original wrong derivation

We take the complex conjugate of Eq. 1 to obtain
$$
F^*(x) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int dk \space \tilde{F}^*(k) e^{-ikx}.
$$
Next, treating $F^*(x)$ as just another function of $x$, and directly do Fourier transform on it to obtain
$$
\begin{align}
    F^*(x) &= \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int dk' \tilde{F}(k') e^{ik'x}\\
    &= \int d(-k) \tilde{F}(-k) e^{-ikx}.
\end{align}
$$
In the second equality sign, I did a change of variable $k'\rightarrow -k$, motivated by the fact that after this change, the exponential factor looks the same as that in Eq. 2, and we can directly equate Eq. 2 with Eq. 4 to obtain
$$
\begin{align*}
    \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int dk \tilde{F}^*(k) e^{-ikx} &= \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int dk' \tilde{F}(k') e^{ik'x}\\
    \tilde{F}^*(k) &= \tilde{F}(-k).
\end{align*}
$$

### Why it is wrong

We used a sleight-of-hand: the Fourier transform of $F^*(x)$, since we are treating it as an independnet function, is not necessarily $\tilde{F}(k')$ itself, but instead some other function $G(k')$ that is not necessarily related to $\tilde{F}(k')$. 

## Updated correct derivation

We take the complex conjugate of Eq. 1 to obtain
$$
F^*(x) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int dk\space \tilde{F}^*(k) e^{-ikx}
$$
By the reality condition of $F(x)$, we have 
$$
F(x) = F^*(x)
$$
We change the dummy integration variable for Eq. 1 to get
$$
\begin{align*}
F(x)&=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int d(-k) \space \tilde{F}(-k) e^{-ikx}\\
&=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int dk \space \tilde{F}(-k) e^{-ikx}\\
\end{align*}
$$
where for the 2nd equality sign, we replace $d(-k)\rightarrow dk$ since the integration domain is symmetric (from $-\infty$ to $\infty$).

Combining the above 3 equations, we finally obtain the desired result
$$
\begin{align*}
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int dk\space \tilde{F}^*(k) e^{-ikx} &= \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \int dk \space \tilde{F}(-k) e^{-ikx}\\
\tilde{F}^*(k) &= \tilde{F}(-k)
\end{align*}
$$



















